Hi, my name is gh05t5h311 (if you know, you know). I’ve been a big fan of computer security and tech for years, not professionally, just as a hobbyist who loves understanding how things work and sometimes how they break. Security is a luxury most people don’t have the time or background to study deeply, so this write-up exists to help normal users understand the modern browser security landscape without drowning in jargon.

This is web security defense: for mere mortals.

Browsers: The Most Dangerous “Simple” App You Use
To most people, a browser is just a window to the internet. Chrome, Firefox, Safari—it all feels simple: you click, you search, you watch videos, you shop, you do life. But under that friendly search bar is one of the most complex, attack-prone pieces of software ever deployed to billions of machines. Every time a webpage loads, your browser launches a full JavaScript engine, a rendering pipeline, GPU interfaces, networking stacks, multiple sandboxes, and often third-party extensions with extremely powerful permissions. For the last decade, attackers have treated browsers as one of the richest hunting grounds in the world. The following is a simplified timeline from 2015 to 2025 showing how “just clicking a link” became a geopolitical hazard and how your browser quietly became the most important, and most dangerous, program you own.

THE ERA OF EXPLOIT KITS (2015–2017)
When Ads Tried to Kill You
In 2015, the biggest threats weren’t the websites you visited but the ads those sites trusted. Massive exploit kits like Angler, Nuclear, and RIG hid inside banner ads on perfectly legitimate pages. You didn’t need to click anything. Often you didn’t even see the ad. If the malicious script loaded, the exploit kit scanned your browser version, Flash, Java, Windows build, and known vulnerabilities. If you matched, the attackers could deploy ransomware, banking malware, botnets, or anything they wanted. This was the Wild West of malvertising, and millions of people were infected by doing nothing wrong.

SPECTRE AND MELTDOWN (2018)
When Browsers Became CPU Threat Surfaces. In January 2018, hardware-level CPU flaws were discovered that allowed malicious JavaScript to infer sensitive data through tiny timing differences. Browsers could leak passwords, encryption keys, and private memory across isolation boundaries. Emergency patches and redesigns followed. This was the turning point where browsers were no longer treated as simple viewers but as full operating systems.

TARGETED ZERO-DAYS (2018–2019)
By 2018 and 2019, attackers shifted heavily into deep engine vulnerabilities, especially in Chrome’s V8 and Firefox’s IonMonkey JIT compiler. These were no longer mass infections but targeted attacks often aimed at journalists, activists, and political groups. A single malicious link could escape the sandbox and run code on the victim’s machine. Zero-days had become geopolitical tools.

THE SUPPLY-CHAIN REVOLUTION (2020–2024)
When Attackers Walked In Through the Front Door:
As browsers hardened and plugins like Flash disappeared, attackers pivoted to something more elegant: compromising the code people voluntarily installed. Browser extensions became the new frontier. Users installed them for privacy, coupons, wallpapers, emojis, and productivity, often granting permissions like “read and change all your data on all websites” without thinking. This trust later enabled one of the most damaging supply-chain incidents in browser history.

THE SHADYPANDA ERA (2023–2025)
The Long Con Imagine installing a harmless wallpaper extension in 2019. It works fine. You forget about it. Then in 2025, an automatic update silently turns it into a hacking tool. This was the ShadyPanda supply-chain attack: a multi-year compromise where attackers pushed malicious updates to millions of users through the official Chrome and Edge extension stores.

Some extensions suddenly began stealing cookies, hijacking sessions, redirecting searches, exfiltrating data, and executing remote JavaScript. There was no phishing, no suspicious downloads, nothing the user did wrong. It all happened through legitimate updates. It was the perfect crime built on trust.

MODERN ZERO-DAY WARFARE (2025)
When Simply Clicking a Link Was Enough
The year 2025 saw a surge in high-severity zero-days, including sandbox escapes, V8 type confusion bugs, and heap corruption flaws. In many cases, the user only had to click a link or visit a compromised site for the attack chain to execute invisibly. The modern “drive-by” attack no longer relied on malicious ads or plugins but on deep engine vulnerabilities.

browser_exploitation_timeline:
  - year: 2025
    case: "ShadyPanda Extension Supply-Chain Attack"
    attack_vector: "Malicious extension updates via Chrome & Edge stores"
    impact: "4.3M users compromised; 145 extensions weaponized"
    category: "Supply-chain compromise"
    sources: [techradar_2025, esecurityplanet_2025, scmedia_2025]
  - year: 2025
    case: "Chrome Zero-Day CVE-2025-2783 (ForumTroll)"
    attack_vector: "Mojo IPC sandbox escape triggered via malicious link"
    impact: "Targeted espionage, journalists & orgs compromised"
    category: "Targeted RCE"
    sources: [techcrunch_2025, kaspersky_2025]
  - year: 2025
    case: "Chrome Zero-Day CVE-2025-6554"
    attack_vector: "V8 type confusion → arbitrary memory read/write"
    impact: "Full RCE on all Chromium browsers"
    category: "Engine-level exploitation"
    sources: [computing_2025, nvd_cve_2025_6554]
  - year: 2025
    case: "Chrome Zero-Day CVE-2025-13223"
    attack_vector: "Heap corruption in V8 triggered by crafted HTML"
    impact: "Wide exposure through normal browsing"
    category: "Memory corruption RCE"
    sources: [thehackernews_2025]
  - year: 2020
    case: "IE Zero-Day CVE-2020-0674"
    attack_vector: "JScript engine memory corruption"
    impact: "Nation-state exploitation in wild"
    category: "Legacy engine attack"
    sources: [microsoft_advisory_2020, trendmicro_2020]
  - year: 2019
    case: "Chrome Zero-Day Trio (FileReader, PDFium, Audio)"
    attack_vector: "Use-after-free vulnerabilities triggered via malicious pages"
    impact: "Targeted attacks globally"
    category: "RCE exploit chain"
    sources: [google_blog_2019, kaspersky_2019]
  - year: 2019
    case: "Firefox IonMonkey Zero-Day CVE-2019-17026"
    attack_vector: "JIT compiler type confusion"
    impact: "Middle East espionage targeting"
    category: "Engine-level RCE"
    sources: [mozilla_security_2019, talos_2019]
  - year: 2018
    case: "Chrome Zero-Day CVE-2018-8653"
    attack_vector: "V8 type confusion"
    impact: "Active wild exploitation"
    category: "JS engine exploitation"
    sources: [microsoft_2018, google_release_notes_2018]
  - year: 2018
    case: "Spectre & Meltdown Browser Exploitation"
    attack_vector: "JavaScript-based micro-architectural leakage"
    impact: "All major browsers forced into emergency redesign"
    category: "Side-channel attack"
    sources: [google_project_zero_2018, meltdown_paper_2018]
  - year: 2015-2024
    case: "Magecart Payment Skimming Epidemic"
    attack_vector: "Client-side JS injection stealing credit card data"
    impact: "Hundreds of e-commerce breaches including BA & Ticketmaster"
    category: "Supply-chain + client-side compromise"
    sources: [riskIQ_2018, ponemon_2019]
  - year: 2015-2017
    case: "Malvertising / Exploit Kit Era (Angler, Nuclear, RIG)"
    attack_vector: "Banner ads loading exploit kits via JS"
    impact: "Millions infected via legitimate websites"
    category: "Drive-by exploitation"
    sources: [malwarebytes_2016, trendmicro_2016]
  - year: 2015
    case: "Hacking Team Browser Exploit Dumps"
    attack_vector: "Leaked zero-days for Flash/IE/Chrome"
    impact: "State-level exploits go mainstream"
    category: "Zero-day proliferation"
    sources: [citizenlab_2015, ars_technica_2015]

KEY TAKEAWAYS FOR MERE MORTALS 

TLS Version Count of Services Percentage of Total
TLS 1.2   77,335,713          ~26.62%
TLS 1.3   53,386,055          ~18.38%
TLS 1.0   2,937,331           ~1.01%
TLS 1.1     615,279           ~0.21%
Total     290,406,670           100%

KEY TAKEAWAYS FOR MERE MORTALS: 

Browsers are now full operating systems and deserve the same caution as any critical application.
JavaScript engines are incredibly complex and can become powerful attack surfaces. Browser extensions are the new Trojan horses, and users should install 
very few of them. Automatic updates are essential for security but also a potential attack vector. Modern attacks are often completely invisible. 
Good security hygiene still matters: unique random passwords, minimal extensions, staying updated, and being mindful of which companies you trust with 
your data. Most importantly, attackers and companies can only misuse the data you choose to provide. 
Separating your online identity from your real one limits what can be taken from you. 

UPDATE(05/02/25):

So this was just a very short write-up I really hope it has helped at least one person better understand how to take steps to do your best to stay safe online.
Now it's time(in a short time) to write about some vulnerabilities that I myself, have found: personally I'm not much of a writer at all so It's never really 
something I leaned into thus far in my programming/computer science experience. So short bit of information: had been seeing an reading allot about why I don't 
do more research publicly: well to be honest I was not really working very much with computers last year(it is just a hobby for me), plus mostly my focus was on 
programming/software development. Just another dagger to keep sharp; so to speak, a great reason for not talking/writing about certain bugs is that even if they 
have been "patched"; someone may find a way around that patch and that's kinda not cool to be exposing that when the point of reporting bugs(other than getting payed) 
is to help secure technology. That being said however there are some things that I would like to share in the future as it is kinda odd that one of 
the top members of the Zero-Day-Gang does not write about 0days. 
They post code; my apologizes for being a let down in the past: here I am; let's do this.

UPDATE(14/02/2025):

Hello. So it has been some time since I have updated this: and now seems the right time with resent revelations(yes those ones) to give a little more light to this subject from my perspective. 
Specifically about browsers and the role of keeping anonymous online (should you wish too) in 2026. Firstly the "should you wish too" explained: 
there are benefit's to being semi-anonymous on the internet and that is great, people don't know whom you are: odd stalker's can't find you as easily. 
Which in today's world where there are A.I tool's that can find you on a map from a simple picture(search engine it), within seconds. That has implications 
that can be a great deal more depending on the context of your security model/needs. And that is mostly the point I'm trying to make is that is is about your 
threat model.

OK yes undoubtedly there are some benefit's to not putting your entire life online, you can just avoid it: but do you want to?
that's the question everyone has to ask themselves but it is hard to answer without some knowledge of how it works. Sure it's easy to do 
the whole pseudo anonymous thing to a degree(use a VPN, never post personally indefinable pictures, strip said pictures of metadata and 
use an animated picture or something of a kind). But what about platforms like "X"?  You need a credit card or some payment system to be verified. 
So even if I strip my pictures of meta data so you can't get the GPS location of where some picture was taken and it has no landmarks in it 
so you can't use A.I tools so easily: the person that owns X still clearly knows whom you or I am; furthermore am I limiting myself by doing that? 
Or do i just not care about that at all? Really it is down to the individual to do that otherwise why be on social media at all right? It does seem that 
most people just don't care about that because more click's on their Facebook page, Instagram, X, snapchat, that's currency in today's world. 
The more time people spend looking at my stuff rather than focusing on their own then that's better for me(or you), right?

Well that honestly and really depends what you like and level of a bridge between the real world and your online self you would like, 
most people in tech know this: it's the non-tech people that don't necessarily understand that: though it is a great deal better than it was 
10 year's ago. But back to a point I made earlier: if you or I have a monetary relationship with sites then that is not anonymous anymore and the 
only way to truly be is to just not use it. Personally I love X and the little interactions I have on there with people so Likely we be less "anonymous" 
over time as things roll out and I go deeper into the tech world, but the key point's are to clean your browser as often as is not to much of a inconvenience. 
Automating that process helps by just having the browser do it for you: plus there are new browsers like "brave" that while they have a small amount of the 
market are actually very good at helping you do this in a simple way. Mostly it is important to think about your needs as a user: be you technically 
astute with computers or not and then develop healthy habits for not just your browser: but all web activity. 

More to come on this in time(say the end of the month(with actual research details included))
- gh05t5h311
